Today I'll be looking into how to use PDX with FAISS. There seems to be an implementation already for FAISS IVF indexes in the git repository of the researchers who developed this method. Now I look if it can be used with graph based indexes or more specifically HNSW.

-- There is no approach from their side to implement a PDX version on graph based indexes.
They are aware that either the PDX approach or the memory layout of the graph needs some modifications in order to get improvements. Probably the latter, since the PDX approach is given and it makes more sense to use the same method, but on a different data structure.
They are also aware of the 'block' problem, which I was worrying about. There is no simple way to group the vectors together, such that we can make use of the column-based memory layout. It makes most sense to have some sort of neighborhood which we can load into memory. Then we could do the parallel searching/pruning on all of them at once. Though I am not sure if this will lead to a big improvement, considering the degree of these graphs isn't that big compared to the number of points in the dataset. The boost of speed comes exactly from this, not many neighbors to check and quickly find the path to the desired nearest neighbor in the graph. Then again, if the path is diam(G) (Diameter of the graph) and each node has d(degree) neighbors, then we still have O(diam(G)\*d) comparisons to do. Hmm, maybe we'll get a benefit from it. (It's log(N) for tree-based approaches. And only if the tree is well-balanced)

How do we store the neighbors close together in memory?
The biggest problem I see is that a single node is potentially the neighbor of many different nodes. So looking at the 1D structure of our physical, there is no way to have a layout, which stores for every single node its neighbors continuously without duplication.
How expensive is it to allow duplication? That is to store all the neighborhoods continuously one after each other. (|1st neighborhood|, |2nd neighborhood|, |3rd neighborhood|, ...)

They do pruning on IVF indexes. How does this look like in a graph-based setting? I assume it's very similar, since you discard vectors that aren't close by. So I think one can discard the vectors in the graph-based setting the same way. This can either be done in a heuristic way or simply taking the smallest distance so far and immediately discard vectors that have bigger distances before doing the complete distance calculation (Is this possible?). A problem I see with the 'closest distance we have seen so far' is parallelism. Since pruning is done in a parallel manner, introducing a dependency like this will result in racing behaviors/problems, so I assume we have to work with heuristics.

-----
So far I read through some articles and code snippets. I'm slowly to get an idea of how the things are set up, but still needs time to completely understand it. Currently looking into code in order to understand how it does its things and then I'll set it up to use it myself, make some measurements.