Currently I'm generating the indexes for PQ with different parameters. I originally used M = dimension/4 and nbits=8. This would lead to the original vector being divided into subvectors each having 4 dimensions. Then k-means is done on them by using each subvector from every vector in the dataset. Since we use nbits=8 we have in total 256 centroids. Each vector in the end receives the ID from one of these centroids. The one closest to the original value. The same as IVF, just on a smaller scale.

 Now I noticed that the recall is very bad. In order to tackle this my first idea was to up the nbits variable, since this decides how many centroids the PQ stage generates. Turns out it isn't the best idea, since training this take a looooong time. It does k-means M=dim/4 times. For simplewiki with 3072 dimensions that's 512+256=768 times k-means. The lookup tables, if used will be gigantic + the table for ID to actual point in space will also be big.
 
 ChatGPT told me to adjust nbuckets/nlist and nprobe values. This would mean the IVF k-means would have many more centroids to choose from when doing the search. Nprobes to look through more of the vectors. The idea is to make use of the low memory cost and lookup tables to do the search fast. Searching more of the space is OK in that sense. I was worried that the resolution of the resulting PQ vectors would be simply too low in order to have very good results. Maybe the problem lies in the distribution of the vector themselves into the centroids that poses the problem. At least for PCA I remember the recall ceiling. It seemed like the result simply can't get better, no matter how much of the space is being searched. I think this comes from the fact that by reducing the dimensionality / compression we loose information. By loosing information we can't properly distinguish between vectors anymore. This would be especially problematic when the dataset has a very dense area, such that after compression many vectors look the same.
 
 I think it would be interesting to display the accuracy per query. Or rather have something like a pie chart that groups recall results in ranges of 10%. This way we can see if the queries behave in general bad/good or if there are sets of queries for which the methods perform bad in general. Also interesting to see how methods perform on 'hard' queries in general, if there are such querries found.

That aside, I still have to figure out what to do with matryoshka embeddings. There a