This note is to accumulate all questions that come to my mind. They will be split across different notes. The cutoff will be the next meeting, then a new note will be generated. Questions not asked yet should be taken over to the next note



	Is it OK if I use GenAI in my project?
	

I use ChatGPT quite a lot to search/discuss/ask stuff I don't have at hand. Small scripts like transforming data from one format to another, inserting data into a database, generating small scripts to have a playground for the database, etc. What about rewriting texts in the thesis I have to hand in eventually? What about code I need to write in the libraries/systems?


This question is partly answered, I think average recall is what I should be looking at in addition to the QPS.

	How should I do the QPS benchmarking?

When using the query set given by the SIFT dataset, the recall isn't the same for every query. So when I plot QPS for given recalls, how should I calculate this number? I get the seconds it takes to do all the queries, but how should I distinguish between queries that achieved the recall we aimed for? Should I separate all the queries that get the recall we want and then do the search only for them and take the QPS of that result?


	 Which Indexes do we focus on?

So far I've been playing around with HNSW and IFV. The methods we listed that we want to investigate mostly aren't indexes, but rather other presentations of vectors. So in theory they could be incorporated into any index.


	 What sort of datasets should we focus on?

There are quite a lot of datasets which are bigger in size than my memory. I think we should avoid fetching stuff from the storage as much as possible, unless we want to analyze something like diskANN, which I'm not sure we're interested in. Either use another system which has more memory or choose smaller datasets.